Wikipedia is one of the most visited websites in the world.Commerce is fine. Advertising is not evil. But it doesn't belong here. Not in Wikipedia.Wikipedia is something special. It is like a library or a public park. It is like a temple for the mind. It is a place we can all go to think, to learn, to share our knowledge with others.When I founded Wikipedia, I could have made it into a for-profit company with advertising banners, but I decided to do something different. We’ve worked hard over the years to keep it lean and tight. We fulfill our mission efficiently.If everyone reading this donated, our fundraiser would be done within an hour. But not everyone can or will donate. And that's fine. Each year just enough people decide to give.This year, please consider making a donation of $5, $20, $50 or whatever you can to protect and sustain Wikipedia.Thanks,Jimmy Wales Wikipedia Founder—Jimmy Wales, Founder of WikipediaWhere your donation goesTechnology: Servers, bandwidth, maintenance, development. Wikipedia is one of the top 10 websites in the world, and it runs on a fraction of what other top websites spend.People and Projects: The other top websites have thousands of employees. We have about 300 staff to support a wide variety of projects, making your donation a great investment in a highly-efficient not-for-profit organization.By donating, you agree to share your personal information with the Wikimedia Foundation, the nonprofit organization that hosts Wikipedia and other Wikimedia projects, and its service providers pursuant to our donor policy. Wikimedia Foundation and its service providers are located in the United States and in other countries whose privacy laws may not be equivalent to your own. We do not sell or trade your information to anyone. For more information please read our donor policy.*For recurring donors, fixed monthly payments will be debited by the Wikimedia Foundation on the monthly anniversary of the first donation, until such time as you notify us to discontinue them. Donations initiated on the 29, 30, or 31 of the month will recur on the last day of the month for shorter months, as close to the original date as possible. For questions, please contact donate@wikimedia.org.