Grab a download!Nyrop defines the Kiss and then categorises the types (love, affection, peace, respect and kindness) of kisses and ends with a summary of the origins of kissing.The translation into English was made by William Frederick Harvey, a British barrister. The Wikisource edition was completed as part of the Proofread of the Month collaborative exercise.Dante, in the fifth canto of his Hell, has celebrated the power a kiss may have over human beings. In the course of his wanderings in the nether world, when he has reached the spot where abide those who have sinned through love, he sees two souls that "flutter so lightly in the wind." These are Francesco da Rimini and her brother-in-law Paolo. He asks Francesco to tell him:?"In the time of your sweet sighs, By what, and how love granted, that ye knew Your yet uncertain wishes?"Whereto she replies:?"One day For our delight we read of Lancelot, How him love thrall'd. Alone we were, and no Suspicion near us. Ofttimes by that reading Our eyes were drawn together, and the hue Fled from our alter'd cheek. But at one point Alone we fell. When of that smile we read, The wished smile, so rapturously kissed By one so deep in love, then he, who ne'er From me shall separate, at once my lips All trembling kiss'd. The book and writer both Were love's purveyors. In its leaves that day We read no more."[1]I have had a special object in prefacing my studies on the history of kissing with these famous verses, for I regarded it in the light of a duty to caution my readers emphatically, and at the very outset, as to the danger of even reading about kisses; and I consider that, having done this, I have warned my readers against pursuing the subject, and "forewarned is forearmed," or, "homme averti en vaut deux."Recent collaborations: Tenth Anniversary Contest, Disney, Domesday survey, Niccolò MachiavelliRecent collaborations: Hunger, Fountains Abbey, The Comic English Grammar, The Kiss and its History, Various Forces of Matter, A Voyage in Space, Life in Motion, The Chemical History of a Candle, Moll Flanders, Law Enforcement Officers Killed and Assaulted, 2002, My Climbs in the Alps and Caucasus, How to Know the Ferns, Myth, Ritual, and ReligionRecent collaborations: Orphans, Proposed policies and guidelines, Author page connection with Wikidata items, Help page improvement, Undated worksSilas Marner (1907) ?by George Eliot The Wouldbegoods (1901) ?by E. Nesbit Agamemnon (1886) ?by Aeschylus, translated by Anna Swanwick The madman, his parables and poems (1918) ?by Kahlil Gibran Rudder Grange (1909) ?by Frank R. Stockton Wild Folk (1922) ?by Samuel Scoville, Jr. Free as in Freedom 2.0 (2010) ?by Sam Williams, revisions by Richard M. StallmanPoetry from ancient and romantic to modern, in love and warTexts, laws, constitutions of many countriesDocuments from US history, including Revolution and Civil WarUS law: Supreme Court decisions, government documents, presidential addressesGeneral literature: modern novels and short stories, horror stories, children’s literature, science fiction, dramaOriginal, encyclopedic, popular articles on relativity, physics, biology, and other sciencesAuthors – IndexWorks – Index