The BT Cloud Sync Summary From Wikibooks, open books for an open world Jump to: navigation, search Overview[edit] The British Telecommunications Cloud Sync application is given free as a part of their broadband internet packages. The cloud allows the use of several devices; for example, laptop, desktop, ipad, etc., and their cloud contents are available to all other devices for the same user. It is designed to provide both fixed storage and multi-version storage of files. Here, fixed storage means that any changes to an original file will cause an update to the copy of the file on the cloud, and multi-copy means that all changes will be saved on the cloud as a separate file. The addition and download of files is possible from virtually any internet connection. Main Points[edit] The computer software is downloaded from the account-holder's MY BT site. Separate software is installed on all of a user's devices that need to be included. When the software is installed, each user's device can have different settings, for example to establish which folders to work with. To open the BT Cloud. There are at least two ways to do so. Users select the shortcut on their computer desktop to access stored files or settings. If necessary, the cloud can be accessed via the BT Cloud web page, one of the My BT pages, where your password for that site will be needed. Fixed storage backup is achieved by placing files into the BT Cloud Sync folder. This BT Cloud Sync folder is installed both in the device's user profile and on the Favorites tree within the Windows Explorer at the time of initial installation. When files are placed into this folder they will be automatically copied to the storage space on the Cloud. This will happen whenever an internet connection is available. Because each device using the Cloud in this way has a similar folder designated BT Cloud Sync, any file placed on such a folder in any user device will be found on the folder of every other device as well. When such files are edited, the changes are also forwarded to all points of interest. See below for deletion effects. Multi-version backup is achieved by backing up files from selected computer folders into similarly named folders on the cloud. Any number of folders can be selected for this purpose. Multi-version backup means that the files will be backed up when they first appear in the same way as for the BT Cloud Sync folder, but after that, when a file is changed both the old copy and a separate new copy of the file is kept. The last five changes of each file are maintained in this way, the oldest being lost from the bottom of the stack. After upload, files can be accessed through the BT Cloud pages or by selecting the desktop shortcut. Files can be downloaded from the cloud by a user at any time, and from any location. Files uploaded on any device are available to any other device also. When original files are deleted on any computer or other device the corresponding copy files on the Cloud will be placed in the Cloud's Trash folder. The trash folder is never emptied other than manually. Users must purposefully delete its contents. If files are deleted in error, the files can be restored again at any point before permanent deletion. There is no password required to access cloud files. The default is for the BT Cloud to operate as a backup automatically. If extra security is needed to protect access to the cloud, then the user can elect to Disconnect all Devices. This is done using the drop menu item on the cloud application itself, or via the BT Cloud web pages. When this is done, the user of any device will need to log on to use the Cloud again. Selecting this item on any device before closing the cloud application will protect all of the devices at the same time. Folders within folders cannot be uploaded. The contents of the nominated folders should contain only files. The files intended are pictures ,videos, music, and documents. The term documents has been noted to include most Microsoft Office and other text-based files. The file-type limits are otherwise unclear. Avoid any manual deletion of a user's computer device from the cloud. If this happens then all of the files saved previously for that device will be deleted from the cloud also. In this situation there is no way to recover such files; they are permanently deleted. However, after a manual deletion of this kind the old device name remains available for reuse in a new backup profile. If the BT Cloud application itself is deleted from a computer then it can be downloaded again. When setting up the new download, the old device name cannot at first be used. A new device name must be used. The settings are made as before the deletion of the application, and the files are uploaded using a new device name. After the new uploads are completed the old device name can be deleted manually, after which the new profile can be renamed using the old name. The BT links below have more information on this. If a device crashes or is stolen then sometimes there is a solution to the problem of lost files. If this happens before any manual deletion of a device or deletion of the application then then a zipped package of the old files can be downloaded from the BT Cloud website to a new device. The BT links below have more information on this. External Links[edit] BT Help Home Page BT Broadband Help How to connect, rename and remove devices from BT Cloud Retrieved from "https://en.wikibooks.org/w/index.php?title=The_BT_Cloud_Sync_Summary&oldid=3041466" Subject: Internet Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Discussion for this IP address Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Book Discussion Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main Page Help Browse wiki Cookbook Wikijunior Featured books Recent changes Donations Random book Using Wikibooks Community Reading room Community portal Bulletin Board Help out! Policies and guidelines Contact us Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page In other languages Add links Sister projects Wikipedia Wikiversity Wiktionary Wikiquote Wikisource Wikinews Wikivoyage Commons Wikidata Print/export Create a collection Download as PDF Printable version This page was last modified on 27 January 2016, at 22:17. Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License.; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Privacy policy About Wikibooks Disclaimers Developers Cookie statement Mobile view